add strategy paper for observability (#695)
kyma-project/community: concepts/observability-strategy/configurable-monitoring/01-monitoring-groundwork.md

# Configurable Monitoring: Groundwork

## Current Situation and Motivation

![a](./assets/monitoring-current.drawio.svg)

The diagram shows that the current solution is based on a preconfigured Prometheus operator providing exporter components, and a Prometheus instance acting as collector and backend. On top, Grafana visualizes the data. However, the current setup does not support a neutral and unified way to integrate backends outside of the cluster at runtime.

> As outlined in the [general strategy](../strategy.md), integration (and with that, changing the focus away from in-cluster backends) is the key to open up the stack for a broad range of use cases. Users can simply bring their own backends, if they already use a commercial offering or run their own infrastructure. The data can be stored outside the cluster in a managed offering, shared with the data of multiple clusters, away from any tampering or deletion attempt of a hacker, to name just a few advantages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As outlined in the [general strategy](../strategy.md), integration (and with that, changing the focus away from in-cluster backends) is the key to open up the stack for a broad range of use cases. Users can simply bring their own backends, if they already use a commercial offering or run their own infrastructure. To name just a few advantages, the data can be stored outside the cluster in a managed offering, shared with the data of multiple clusters, and kept away from any tampering or deletion attempts by hackers.
```

- Users need a way to influence what metrics are outstreamed. External systems will have a price dependent on load. Not relevant metrics must be droppable.

### Basic backend configuration
- Have a vendor-neutral layer of collectors that collects and ships metrics, but does not permanently store it (as a backend).

> - The collector must run stable at any time when using the typical settings. Bad configuration must be prevalidated and rejected. Fast feedback is welcome.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The collector must run stably at any time when using the typical settings. Bad configuration must be prevalidated and rejected. Fast feedback is welcome.
```
